Akash v3 upgrade instructions (#233)
ovrclk/docs: guides/node/upgrades/akash-3.0.md

# Upgrade Guide for Akash 3.0

This document provides guidelines for node operators upgrading from Akash Mainnet from v2 to v3.

## Upgrade Details

### Akash Network v0.16.0

- [Release Notes](https://github.com/ovrclk/akash/releases/tag/v0.16.0)

### Akash Mainnet

- Upgrade Height: `[TBD]`

## Upgrade Guidelines

### Update Go

The latest version of Go (`1.17`) is required. For more information, see [Go](https://golang.org/).

### Option 1: Using Cosmovisor

The following instructions assume the `akash` and `cosmovisor` binaries are already installed and `cosmovisor` is set up as a systemd service. If this is not the case, please refer to [Start a node with Cosmovisor](../node/cosmovisor.md) for instructions on how to install and set up the binaries.

**Cosmovisor 1.0 is required.**

#### Configure Cosmovisor

*Note: The following steps are not required if Cosmovisor v1.0 is already installed and configured to your preferred settings.*

To install `cosmovisor`, run the following command:

```bash
go install github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor@v1.0
```

Check to ensure the installation was successful:

```bash

> cosmovisor version

Reviewer: Command to check the cosmovisor version can be updated here as well.

```

Update `cosmovisor` systemd service file and make sure the environment variables are set to the appropriate values (the following example includes the recommended settings):

```bash
echo "[Unit]
Description=Cosmovisor daemon
After=network-online.target
[Service]
Environment="DAEMON_NAME=akash"
Environment="DAEMON_HOME=${HOME}/.akash"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true"
Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP=false"
User=${USER}
ExecStart=${GOBIN}/cosmovisor start
Restart=always
RestartSec=3
LimitNOFILE=4096
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
" >cosmovisor.service
```

> Cosmovisor can be configured to automatically download upgrade binaries. It is recommended that validators do not use the auto-download option and that the upgrade binary is prepared manually. If you would like to enable the auto-download option, update the following environment variable in the systemd configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cosmovisor can be configured to automatically download upgrade binaries. It is recommended that validators do not use the auto-download option and that the upgrade binary is compiled and placed manually. If you would like to enable the auto-download option, update the following environment variable in the systemd configuration file:
```

```bash
Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=true"
```

Cosmovisor will automatically create a backup of the data directory at the time of the upgrade and before the migration. If you would like to disable the auto-backup, update the following environment variable in the systemd configuration file:

```bash
Environment="UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP=true"
```

Move the file to the systemd directory:

```bash
sudo mv cosmovisor.service /lib/systemd/system/cosmovisor.service
```

> Restart `cosmovisor` to ensure the environment variables have been updated:

Reviewer: `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` is enough for the updated env variables to take effect. Restart of the node is not required.

Author: This gives double guarantee, so lets keep it

```bash
sudo systemctl stop cosmovisor
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl start cosmovisor
```

Check the status of the `cosmovisor` service:

```bash
sudo systemctl status cosmovisor
```

Enable cosmovisor to start automatically when the machine reboots:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable cosmovisor.service
```

#### Prepare Upgrade Binary

*Note: The following steps are not required if the auto-download option was enabled.*

Either download the upgrade binary (`v0.16.0`) or build it from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ovrclk/akash
cd akash
git fetch --all
git checkout v0.16.0
make akash
```

Create the folder for the upgrade binary (`v0.16.0`) and copy the `akash` binary into the folder. This next step assumes that the `akash` binary was built from source and stored in the `current` (i.e., akash) directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.akash/cosmovisor/upgrades/akash_v0.15.0_cosmos_v0.44.x/bin
cp ./akash $HOME/.akash/cosmovisor/upgrades/akash_v0.15.0_cosmos_v0.44.x/bin
```

> At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v2.0.0`), set the upgrade binary as the new current binary (`v0.16.0`), and then restart the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the proposed block height, `cosmovisor` will automatically stop the current binary (`v0.14.0`), set the upgrade binary as the new current binary (`v0.16.0`), and then restart the node.
```
